# Homework 6: Reflecton

- Due on Saturday, May 25 at 11:59pm
- Weight: 8% of total grade

<br>

**Write**: Reflect on your previous work and how you would adjust to include ethics and inequity components. Total length should be a few paragraphs, no more than one page.


To adjust ethics and inequility components of the farmer's market, we have to look at it from a number of different aspects, customers, customer demograph and purchasing patterns.

Firstly, customers are entries in the DB with a structure of first name and last name. At a glance, this structure is no different than any other naming conventions widely used in the North American society, and in most cases, are required structure in many legal documents. However, when considering cultural diversities, many cultures does not following this structure when naming new borns, some culture combines the so called last names from both parents' family, some culture consider last name to be the family name and comes in first when naming, some other culture could have punctuations or numbers and symbols in the name. In some cases, many family members could have the same name. So when structuring the DB, all possibilities should be considered and with a wide range of data types included.

Secondly, it was noted that in the zip_data table, although not used within the scope of this learning module, it tracked the demographical infomations of the customers' neighborhood with infomations like household income, age distribution and etc. Infomations like this are widely collected in real world cases where customers are often "forced" or "lured" into providing residency infomation when signing up for store memberships or redeeming price discounts or in some cases even providing such infomation unknowningly. This information can be greatly leveraged for finanical gains by vendors, infomations or infomation derivitives and be grenerated from this, which can be used for commercial purposes like targeted campaigns, targeted marketing materials and even intrusive sales. This has been a perpetual debate amoung consumer protection as these activities strong benefit vendors over the customers, especially with increasing online purchasing where cookie are being collected from customers and even none-customers. In my opnion, this capital driven tactic can definitely generate a competitive edge for vendors who leverage such information, but it is the contrary for small to medium sized local businesses and this competitive gap can only ever expand. As a end result, a certian market would be filled with merely a handful number of vendors where the smaller or local businesses can not survive. On the other hand, as a consumer, this practice can sometimes generate just the right fit of products needed, but in most cases, consumers are spammed with marketing infomation where "No Junk Mail" is no longer an option.

Lastly and closely related to the second opinion, this farmer's market DB tracks each purchases generated, and the top buyers can easily be tracked and ranked. This could then be used again to predict buying patterns of individuals, and as a vendor, this information can be used to make investive decisions to spend the money on stocking most popular products and high margin protucts while reducing the variety offered at the market, which discourages deversity and uniqueness.

These opinions are merely the tip of the iceberg and has been widely debated across the market. There is no fault in using these data to generate profit, but the collect and purpose of such activites should be clearly be explained to consumers who are often the vulnerable groups.